OUTLET:Quora

As with many other things, the best answer to this question involves the meditation that you will actually do, as opposed to the meditation you think about doing. This requires being honest with yourself . It is nice to have great ambitions, and sometimes you can boost yourself a good bit of the way with ambition, but good routines are difficult work. Take what help you can.

This is to say that you can get a lot of milage from practicing in the context of a community. I started formal  practice in workshop associated with class on Buddhist meditation, which is to say a union of theory and practice mediated by the classics of Buddhist literature (Dogen, Huineng, Lotus Sutra, etc.). This provided a regular framework of practice which was also obligatory. This was extremely helpful given my own tendency to not be very regular with things. 
So I'd seek out something alone these lines that helps you. Personal contact is best, but an online correspondence course of some kind may be helpful also.  

When it comes to tradition, many provide very similar practices and, given that you have to start somewhere, I recommend starting with what is near to you and available and working yourself up to more difficult practices. Be open to many different types of practices (mantras, breath watching, breath counting, koans, etc.), but assiduously avoid gurus of all kinds. It is 90% of the time a way for someone to ride on someone else's coattails and defer responsibility for their own practice. 

When it comes to more difficult practices, they generally include long meditation times, long breath retention times (with yogic traditions), sitting in a lotus posture for a long time, maintaining silence for long periods, fasts, and potentially also sleep deprivation. Generally groups that focus on community do not include very rigorous practices, since there is no way that all people can do all of the practices I mention, and most settle on a happy medium. Settling into a happy mediocrity is, however, not a very good way of improving your meditation. Finding good teachers and practice partners is. 

One good way to pump up your practice is to keep track of what you are doing. Here you can see one attempt I made: Sadhana. This records the various practices I was attempting at the time and how often I did them.

Keep in mind that many traditions, including that of the Gita, heavily emphasize Bhakti, or worship, as an extremely important part of the practice. This has the wonderful benefit of destroying the individual ego, which greatly facilitates meditation. I highly recommend any sort of chanting or singing, including formal services, that resounds with your heart.

In general, the most important thing to return to is intention. Your  

